WIM VANDERBAUWHEDE: Hi and
welcome to our Functional
Programming in Haskell course.
My name is Wim.
JEREMY SINGER: And I'm Jeremy.
WIM VANDERBAUWHEDE: We want
to supercharge your coding.
We will help you to be more
effective by making you think
about programming in a new way.
JEREMY SINGER: We are from
the University of Glasgow,
which was a prominent
research contributor
to the development of the
Haskell programming language.
WIM VANDERBAUWHEDE: Admittedly,
that was a long time
ago in the late eighties.
JEREMY SINGER: When
we were only students.
WIM VANDERBAUWHEDE: But
Haskell has grown enormously
in popularity.
If you check the online
programming chart,
Haskell is consistently
in the top 50,
and it's a cool topic
of geek conversation.
If you know Haskell, people
will give you respect.
Who knows?
They might even give you a job.
JEREMY SINGER: In
essence, though,
this course is about more
than just the intricacies
of the Haskell
programming language.
We really want you
to become familiar
with the underlying concepts
of functional programming.
That's a much broader aim.
You see, functional
concepts are popping up
in all kinds of modern general
purpose programming languages.
Think about lambdas in C++
and Java, for instance.
WIM VANDERBAUWHEDE:
Before we leave
you to learn some
Haskell, we would
like to introduce you to the
man after whom the Haskell
language was named.
Haskell Curry was a prominent
logician in the 20th century,
and the Haskell committee
got the approval
of his widow to
use his first name
for their great new language.
I guess that just gives you
an idea how deeply Haskell
is rooted in formal logic.
JEREMY SINGER: Right.
That's enough talking.
Let's get coding.
We've really enjoyed putting
this course together,
and we hope you're
going to enjoy it too.
This week there are lots
of interactive web-based
programming exercises for you
to get a grounding in the syntax
and basic concepts of Haskell.
Do try them out, and let us know
how you get on in the comments
section below.
Happy coding!